#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 1cm
\topmargin 1cm
\rightmargin 1cm
\bottommargin 1cm
\headheight 1cm
\headsep 1cm
\footskip 1cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
projectSiegen | Summary
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
May 7-13
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Impressions
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
I started with reading about Modular Variables from `Dynamical quantum non-local
ity', a perspective paper from Nature Physics.
 The paper basically talks about how modular variables capture the essence
 of a quantum state in a way that no other variable we've considered so
 far does.
 It relates this to non-locality in quantum mechanics.
 This non-locality however is not the one usually considered in the context
 of say the singlet state.
 The point they make is that this non-locality arises from the equations
 of motion (Heisenberg picture), which are non-local themselves (since operators
 are involved).
 I found the paper is simple, subtle and interesting.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Next I started reading a paper titled `Quantum interference experiments,
 modular variables and weak measurements' from IOP Science.
 This I was told is an elaboration of the perspective paper.
 However, I didn't complete this for I hadn't frozen the topic yet.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
I talked to a person named `Roope' at the group and his work came across
 as rather fascinating.
 I was impressed by his work; it is related to `measurement equivalent of
 mixed state'.
 You make a certain kind of measurment with a certain classical probability.
 With this type of measruement operators, he was able to show that for compatibl
ity, commutation is not the best criterion.
 Of course compatability means that the two measurement can be done simultaneous
ly without affecting each other.
 He gave a good example from his paper `Joint Measureablity of Generalized
 Measruements Implies Classicality', PRL to illustrate the points.
 His main result was unification of the concept of steering with that of
 his test of joint measurement, viz.
 compatibility.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Modular variables are discussed quite neatly in the book by Aharonov et.
 al., titled `Quantm Paradoxes: Quantum Theory for the Perplexed'.
 I read the first few pages, which are a delight to read (about how paradoxes
 help, classification of paradoxes etc.).
 I read the main chapter related to modular variables.
 I still have some small doubts which I'll clarify soon.
 Other than that, I have a good basic idea of the concept.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
I talked to `Costentino' who basically told me that his work revolves around
 looking at Bells inequalities in more complicated systems.
 I didn't find that particularly attractive.
 I also talked to `Nicolai' and he told me he works on finding interesting
 states.
 The kind of states he/they look for are such that the sub systems (partially
 traced) are separable but the entire state is `genuinely entangled' (this
 is the region of state space excluding separable and after tracing entangled
 states).
 He talked about witnesses and an algorithm to find an optimal witness and
 an optimal state correspondingly, recursively, starting from a random initial
 state matrix.
 This was ok, but again, not very appealing to me.
 And last person for the (that) day, I talked to `Marius' and he told me
 about how he studies bell's inequalities in decaying particles, and his
 system of choice was Kions.
 Again, it maybe non trivial and hard, but didn't come accross as worth
 pursuing.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Discussed various topics with Roope including
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Itemize
How contextuality is expected from usual understanding of QM, but it is
 essential to characterize the quantum feature of the system (later Dr.
 Guehne explained how in Bell's case, local hidden variable is the assumption,
 whereas here, the assumption is non-contextuality [since we're talking
 about only one system])
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Discussed how one can exponentiate an unbounded operator.
 He seemed to have some big mathematical machinary, but I am still not convinced
 that it is necessary.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
I wasn't able to understand how to prove (especially after the new definition
 of exponentiation) 
\begin_inset Formula $[e^{A},e^{B}]=0\implies[A,B]=0$
\end_inset

.
 We tried some things, but they didn't help much.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Implementing causality etc.
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Itemize
Maria: She works on hypergraph states.
 The idea is to represent quantum states as graphs.
 One can show the limits of usual graphs of this form.
 The limit is that one can represent say the GHZ state, but not a related
 less entagled state (forgot the name).
 She had made a lot of new progress in barely 3 months.
 She found states which maximally violate the bell inequality in 3 qubits,
 which weren't known earlier.
 She was able to even derive conditions on probablities of certain outcomes
 which consequently rule out various local hidden variable models.
 In the course of doing this, she'd made various conjectures and proven
 them, by looking at patterns in certain calculations.
 I found her work rather interesting and impressive, given that she did
 it all in barely 3 months (and that she is/was a computer science student),
 but not something I'd pursue.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Frank: He started with explaining various usual quantum optics subtopics,
 such as action of a beam splitter in terms of creation anhilation operators,
 how its action is similar to that of CNOT, how it can easily convert superposit
ion to entanglement, how a coherent state would pass through it etc.
 Then he mentioned what's called a P distribution, (stands for P something
 and Sudarshan distribution) which is given for a state 
\begin_inset Formula $\rho$
\end_inset

 as 
\begin_inset Formula $P_{\rho}(\alpha)$
\end_inset

, with 
\begin_inset Formula $\alpha\in C$
\end_inset

, and s.t.
 
\begin_inset Formula $\rho=\int P_{\rho}(\alpha)\left|\alpha\right\rangle \left\langle \alpha\right|$
\end_inset

.
 This he said is more useful in characterizing quantum properties.
 Then he discussed how like in the one qubit case, we have a bloch sphere,
 we can construct similar objects with more qubits also.
 Then he talked about relating 
\begin_inset Formula $\left|\alpha\right\rangle =D(\alpha)\left|0\right\rangle $
\end_inset

 with creating states from the extremum state, like 
\begin_inset Formula $\left|j,j\right\rangle $
\end_inset

 by applying similarly constructed 
\begin_inset Formula $D$
\end_inset

 equivalents, except in this case with 
\begin_inset Formula $J_{\pm}$
\end_inset

 instead of 
\begin_inset Formula $a,\, a^{\dagger}$
\end_inset

.
 He claimed that the states in the orbit of this group (group of transformations
), don't span the full space.
 He said that mixed states so produced can then be mapped to entangled state
 like was done with the beam splitter.
 The details he said are involving.
 This also looked interesting, but again, not the direction in which I'd
 like to work at the moment.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
